Project Overview:
Your task involves creating a web-based application that facilitates appointment scheduling. This application should enable users to view available time slots, 
book appointments, and receive notifications. 
While outlining the project, we'd like to specify that your options are limited to the following technology stack:

Frontend: HTML, CSS, React
Backend: Node.js, JavaScript, PHP
Database: MySQL



Features and functionalities of the application:-

1. Appointment Scheduling Page

    # User - friendly Interface :-
       A clean and intuitive interface for users to initiate appointment scheduling.

    # Appointment Scheduling Button:-
      A  button that directs users to the "Available Time Slots" page to select a suitable time slot.

2. Available Time Slots Page:

    # View Available Time Slots:
        Users can see a table of available time slots categorized by day and time.

     # Booked time slot: (This is used as demo for some fixed time slot that can be changed in future)
        There will be two types of time slots one is dark in the color which shows that times are available for booking,
        and the time slot in light color shows that this timeSlot is already booked for appointments user can not book those time slot.

    # Non-Booked Time Slots:
       Non- Booked timeSlot is avilable in the dark green color user can book those time.

    #Select and Book Appointments: 
     * Users can choose a preferred time slot and book appointments with a simple click.
     * After clicking on the available time slot there will display a form in which user have to provide information like date, name age and phone number.
     * After that there is a book slot button when user will click on the button appointment will book for those time slot and date.

    # Notifications :
       Notification System: For notification user will get a notification in sms in which users will get notified that their appointment is confirmed. 
       The notification will be send on the phone number.
       I used twilio to send sms notification.

    # Data Storage: 
       Booked appointment data is securely stored in the MySQL database.

3. Database Integration:

    # MySQL Database: 
       The application integrates with a MySQL database to store user data, appointment details.
       
       CREATE TABLE appointments (
        id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
        day VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
        appointment_date DATE NOT NULL,
        timeSlot VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
        name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
        age INT NOT NULL,
        phoneNumber BIGINT NOT NULL
        );
        
       This is my sql query to create the table appointments in which the data will store.

Development Phases:

Frontend Development:
Create the "Appointment Scheduling" and "Available Time Slots" pages using HTML, CSS, and React.

Backend Development:

Set up the Node.js and javascript backend to handle appointment management, and database interactions.
Develop APIs for frontend-backend communication.

Twilio is used to send sms notification.


